National Visa
Overview
Note: Visa application will not be accepted at any of the visa center in case of any error in the visa application form . With effect from 04th Nov’24 , we are informing all applicants that No handwritten forms will be acceptable therefore you are kindly requested to take the print out of the same post filling all details online from your side.

Delhi Jurisdiction

https://www.exteriores.gob.es/Embajadas/nuevadelhi/en/ServiciosConsulares/Paginas/inicio.aspx

Dear Applicant ,
Please be informed that your family member can also submit their visa application as walk in at the day of your scheduled appointment at our visa center (It is applicable only for National Visa Applications )It is not applicable for Students Family/Relatives . They need to wait until student obtains the visa. They need to take an appointment under as Family/Relatives of Student

Mumbai Jurisdiction

https://www.exteriores.gob.es/Consulados/mumbai/en/ServiciosConsulares/Paginas/inicio.aspx

KINDLY NOTE THAT THE APPLICANT SHOULD BE A RESIDENT OF THE SAID JURISDICTION FOR AT LEAST A PERIOD OF SIX MONTHS.

The consular jurisdiction of the Embassy of Spain in New Delhi includes Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal, Sri Lanka and a number of States and Union Territories of India: Jammu and Kashmir, Uttar Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Nagaland, Punjab, Bihar, Meghalaya, Chandigarh, Jharkhand, Manipur, Uttarakhand, West Bengal, Tripura, Haryana, Odisha, Mizoram, Delhi NCR, Sikkim, Lakshadweep Island, Rajasthan, Ladakh, Assam, and Andaman and Nicobar Islands.

The consular jurisdiction of the Consulate General of Spain in Mumbai includes: Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Union Territories of India: Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Daman & Diu, and Puducherry.

The place of issue of a passport or the permanent resident mentioned in the passport does not determine the jurisdiction but it is the current place where an applicant resides for the past 6 months that determines whether he/she belongs to a specific jurisdiction. Please note that visa applications cannot be processed from applicants (including Indian nationals) not permanently residing in India. Those visiting India and wishing to go to Spain from India - even on their way back to their country of residence - need to apply for their Schengen visa before departing from the relevant Consulate of their country of residence.

Note:- Please make a note that applicant has to apply from the country if he/she is studying / working outside the home country .